CodeGen docs (#1304)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: workers/unity/Packages/io.improbable.gdk.tools/.CodeGenDocs/2-write-a-generator.md

# Write a generator with the CodeWriter API

### _"It's lambdas all the way down!"_

## Set up a generator

Create a static class in your code generator's namespace that implements a `Generate` method, returning a `CodeWriter`.

For example:

```csharp
using Improbable.Gdk.CodeGeneration.CodeWriter;
using Improbable.Gdk.CodeGeneration.Model.Details;
using NLog;

namespace Your.Own.CodeGenerator
{
    public static class YourFirstGenerator
    {
        private static readonly Logger Logger = LogManager.GetCurrentClassLogger();

        public static CodeWriter Generate()
        {
            // Create and return a CodeWriter
        }
    }
}
```

> Note: `NLog` is optional, but recommended for code generator logging.

### Making use of `AddGenerators`

To take advantage of the `AddGenerators` method on the `CodegenJob`, your function must match one of the following signatures:

```csharp
public static CodeWriter Generate(UnityComponentDetails details);
public static CodeWriter Generate(UnityTypeDetails details);
public static CodeWriter Generate(UnityEnumDetails details);
```

> > Note: the methods do not _have_ to be called `Generate` nor be public. Their accessibility should depend on where you are calling them from.

Reviewer: but the return value and the arguments need to be matching, I assume? 

I wonder if there is a better way to phrase that though this is definitely clearer than it was before

Author: ```suggestion
> Note: the methods do not _have_ to be called `Generate`, but they must return a `CodeWriter` and consume a type of `GeneratorInputDetails`. They also do not have to be public: accessibility should depend on where you are calling them from.
```
?

* Use `CodeWriter.Raw(string text)` to define a verbatim `CodeWriter`.
* Directly return `string` from the `Generate` method.

To take advantage of the `AddGenerators` method on the `CodegenJob`, your function must match one of the following signatures:

```csharp
public static string Generate(UnityComponentDetails details);
public static string Generate(UnityTypeDetails details);
public static string Generate(UnityEnumDetails details);
```

> Note: the methods do not _have_ to be called `Generate` nor be public. Their accessibility should depend on where you are calling them from.

## CodeWriter: Introduction

To create a new CodeWriter, use the static `Populate` method. Use the provided APIs to define the contents of your file.

> See [here](3-using-the-codewriter.md) for an in-depth guide to using the `CodeWriter` API.

Here's an example:

```csharp
public static CodeWriter Generate()
{
    return CodeWriter.Populate(cw =>
    {
        cw.UsingDirectives(
            "System",
            "System.Collections.Generic"
        );

        cw.Namespace("Your.Own.Namespace", ns =>
        {
            //define namespace contents
        });
    });
}
```

> ## CodeWriter: Namespaces

Author: I was debating this with myself for a while

yes it's available in the IDE but I came to the opinion that having a handy reference to the side is useful for _quickly_ seeing what you can/can't do for different code constructs (0 keypresses required, just scroll)

You can use the following methods when constructing a namespace:

* `Annotate`
* `Text`
* `TextList`
* `Line`
* `CustomScope`
* `Enum`
* `Type`

## CodeWriter: Structs and classes

Structs and classes can be defined using the `Type` method where available.

You can use the following familiar methods when constructing structs and classes:

* `Annotate`
* `Text`
* `TextList`
* `Line`
* `CustomScope`
* `Enum`
* `Type`

In addition, the following two methods are exposed:

* `Initializer`
* `Method`

## Enums

You can use the following methods when constructing enums:

* `Member`
* `Members`

## CodeWriter: Other scoped bodies

A scoped body is a generic body of code that is either a method or can lie within a method scope. Constructs of this kind are:

* `CustomScope`
* `Method`
* `Loop`

You can use the following methods when defining a scoped body:

* `Text`
* `TextList`
* `Line`
* `CustomScope`
* `Initializer`

The following methods are also exposed:

* `Loop`
* `If/ElseIf/Else`
* `Try/Catch/Finally`
* `Return/Return(x)`

> * `ProfilerStart(x)`

Author: correct - and you'll be updating the docs I hope ;)
